Add guidance on the password reveal control (#1012)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/web-platform/password-reveal.md

_Invoking the button turns the obfuscated dots into whatever the user typed into the field._

By default, the password reveal button is inserted into the Shadow DOM of all HTML inputs of `type="password"`. As of Microsoft Edge v87, users or [enterprises](https://docs.microsoft.com/deployedge/microsoft-edge-policies#passwordrevealenabled) may disable this feature globally. Web designers and developers should expect most Microsoft Edge users to have the default experience.

## Removing the browser’s password reveal control

Web developers can completely remove the browser’s password reveal control (e.g. in favor of their own) by targetting the `::-ms-reveal` pseudo element:

```
::-ms-reveal {
  display: none;
}
```

However, we recommend that most websites take advantage of the browser’s password reveal button, as the control’s behavior has important [security measures](#visibility-of-the-control) built in.

## Customizing control styling

Web developers can instead tweak the button’s styling so it better matches the website’s visual language. For example:

```
::-ms-reveal {
  border: 1px solid transparent;
  border-radius: 50%;
  box-shadow: 0 0 3px currentColor;
}
```

> Some notes on styling:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following list describes styling notes to keep in mind when working with the password reveal button:

```

Author: @Reezaali took up most of your suggested changes! I updated this with slightly different text.

* The browser’s “eye” iconography is implemented as a background image. To add a background color to the button, use the CSS `background-color` property instead of the `background` shorthand property.
* Web developers may adjust the size and scale of the password reveal button, but the button will be clipped by the bounds of the password input control (if applicable).

> * There are currently no state selectors available to style the button’s “toggled” state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* There are currently no state selectors available to style the button’s toggled state.

```

## Visibility of the control

> While trying out the password reveal button, it may be helpful to understand in which circumstances the button is displayed. The password reveal control is not available until the user enters text into the field, and as added security precautions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While trying out the password reveal button, it may be helpful to understand when the button is displayed. The password reveal control is not available until the user enters text into the field. Also, for added security:

```

> * The button is removed if focus moves from the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The button is removed if focus moves away from the password field.

```

* The button is removed if scripts modify the password field.

> * If the button is removed at any point, the entire contents of the password field must also be removed in order to bring the button back (preventing someone from making a minor adjustment in order to view the password).

Reviewer: Regarding removal of the button - do we mean that the dev removes the class at runtime? If yes, can we add that clarification please?

Author: No, I'm referring to the removals described in the previous bullets. Any suggestions on clarifying?

Reviewer 2: I marked it up to be a bit cleaner and more readable.

Author: Did you push your changes? I don't think I see them.

> * If the button is removed at any point, the entire contents of the password field must also be removed in order to bring the button back (preventing someone from making a minor adjustment in order to view the password).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the button is removed at any point, the entire contents of the password field must be deleted before the button is displayed again. This feature prevents someone from making a minor adjustment in order to view the password.

```

---
description: This page provides guidance on controlling the display of the password reveal button
title: Customizing the password reveal button
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.date: 11/25/2020
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
keywords: microsoft edge, compatibility, web platform, password reveal, eye icon
---
# Customizing the password reveal button  

The `password` input type in Microsoft Edge includes a **password reveal** button.  This control enables a user to verify their password is entered correctly in the **password** field.  After a user has entered text in the **password** field, they may choose the **password reveal** button or select `Alt`+`F8` to toggle visibility of their input:  

:::row:::
   :::column span="":::
      The password reveal button appears during text entry
      

>       :::image type="complex" source="../media/web-platform/password-reveal/password-eye.png" alt-text="A **password** field with dots hiding the characters entered by a user.  An icon shaped like an eye is displayed within the right-hand side of the **password** field.  " lightbox="../media/web-platform/password-reveal/password-eye.png":::

Author: @jm-trd-ms is there another way we can present this information? The lightbox magnification icon ends up getting displayed over the password reveal icon, so it ends up obscuring the most important part of the image until you open the lightbox.

Reviewer 2: Images have been updated.
